Considering the conditions under which Marc Bloch wrote "The Historian's Craft" makes this book a marvel of erudition,
perseverance and hope. Bloch implores the Historian to refrain from the twin demons of history; the quest for origins and
the passing of judgments. This admonition poses a great deal of difficulty for the historian because the pursuit of history becomes a description of events that happen in a very definite context. It is the discovery of context, specifically context from long ago, where speculation can creep into an historic account, that makes history so difficult. The argument that Bloch is making seems to be that regardless of the methodologies used in the research, the first requirment is for the historian to remove their own personality from the pursuit of an accurate account of history.
Philosophers have used speculations and logic in inquiries into the nature of origins and they have been convincing to varying degrees. The historian should see this as folly since philosohy is not as demanding as history. According to Bloch the nature, reliabilty of, and even the prejudices of the writer of that document need to be considered before an accurate picture of the past can be seen. My question in reading Bloch's book is, how does anyone write anything about past events and can anything written about the past be trusted in light of the arguments made by Bloch. 
Historians must place all of their inellectual prowess into the examination and understanding of an event or period under study to pursue their craft. And it is a craft as described by Bloch. While it is a science to some degree and the use of imagination is necessary to make connections, it is of necessity to the historian to use imagination without resorting to the specuative as the philosophers do. This, makes history far more demanding than any of the sciences. In history there are thousands of variables floating in the ether, like chaff in the wind, that are either important or not. It is the task of the historian to sort these bits. In considering the complexities of motives and choices in the early twentyfirst century and try to find the turning points or significat events that caused people to choose one path over another, it will be very difficult. Bloch makes very clear the difficulty of such a task and the pitfalls that must be avoided for the Historian to complete his task.
